Chad GBT isn't just answering your
questions anymore. It's learning who you
are, what you care about, what you need
before you even ask for it. And in 2026,
the algorithm behind Chad GBT is about
to shift in ways most marketers don't
see coming. I'm Neil Patel, co-founder
of NP Digital. And my team analyzes a
behavior patterns across hundreds of
brands every single day. And what we're
seeing tells us one thing, the rules are
changing fast. Today, I'm walking you
through exactly how Chat GB's algorithm
is evolving, what signals it's
prioritizing, and how you can position
your brand to get cited, recommended,
and trusted inside the world's fastest
growing discovery engine. Because once
you understand how the algorithm works,
you stop guessing and you start winning.
Let's dive in. Update number one, Chad
GBT is building its own authority
system. Right now you can publish a
listical on your own site site yourself
dozens of time and chat GBT might
actually reference you and it works for
a lot of brands but that window is
closing. Chad GPT is building its own
version of domain authority similar to
how Google has paid or how they even
leverage the ET framework EAT which
stands for experience expertise
authority and trust and just like how
Google rewards expert-driven content
over keyword stuff garbage chat GPT is
starting to weigh industry relevant
sources more heavily than self-published
spam. Here's what's happening. The
algorithm is shifting away from pure
citation volume and towards citation
quality. It's not just about how many
times your brand gets mentioned. It's
about who's mentioning you and where.
Here's a right strategy. Build real
authority in your niche. Get featured on
industry publications. Contribute expert
insights to recognized platforms. Get
cited by credible sources, not just your
own blog. Create human-driven expert
level content. Chat GP's goal is to
reduce hallucinations. The best way to
do that, pull from people who actually
know what they're talking about. You
shouldn't rely on gaming the system.
Self- citations will eventually get
filtered out. Real expertise will rise
to the top. The brands that win in 2026
are the ones that build genuine
authority, not manufactured visibility.
Update two. Reddit and community sources
are losing ground. Chad GBT pulls a lot
of data from Reddit, Kora, and other
community platforms. But here's a
problem. Anyone can post anything on
Reddit. The quality is inconsistent.
Spamming is rising, and Chad GBT knows
it. Expect the algorithm to reduce its
reliance on generic community sites and
start prioritizing verified industry
specific sources instead. This means two
things. Low-quality forums will matter
less. Highquality expert platforms will
matter more. If your brand is only
showing up in Reddit threads, your
visibility inside Chad GPT is at risk.
Here's what to do. Focus on getting
mentioned in industry publications, case
studies, and expert roundups. Contribute
to high authority platforms where your
insights get attributed to you by name.
Build a reputation outside of open forms
because chat GPT is moving away from
them. The algorithm is getting smarter
about filtering noise. Make sure your
brand isn't part of the noise. Update
three, video content is getting
integrated. Textbased answers won't
dominate chat GPT forever. The algorithm
is starting to integrate video into its
responses just like how Google does with
video carousels. Why? Because that's
what people actually consume. More
people watch videos than read articles.
And Chad GBT is responding to that
behavior. In 2026, when someone asked
Chad GP a question, the answer might
include a ren summary, a link to a
YouTube video, a Tik Tok, or Instagram
clip. This is a massive shift. Here's
how to prepare. Create video content
around your core topics. Chad GBT will
start pulling from YouTube, Tik Tok, and
social platforms more frequently.
Optimize your videos for search. Use
clear titles, detailed descriptions, and
natural keywords integrated into your
scripts. Transcribe everything. AI reads
your captions, your descriptions, your
on-screen text. Make sure your video
content is machine readable. Video isn't
optional anymore. It's how you show up
in AIdriven discovery. Update 4. Chad
GBT is becoming a predictive discovery
engine. Right now, Chad GBT is reactive.
You ask a question, it gives you an
answer. But that's changing. In 2026,
Chad GBT won't just respond to what you
ask. It'll predict what you need before
you even know it. Here's how it works.
Chat GBT tracks your full search
history. It knows what you care about,
what problems you're solving, what your
goals you're working towards, and
instead of waiting for you to ask, it'll
start offering insights proactively.
Imagine this. You've been searching
about fitness, nutrition, and weight
loss for weeks. The next time you open
Chad GBT, it doesn't wait for your
question. It says, "Hi, Neil. Based on
your recent searches, here's a new bio
hack that could help you put on five
more pounds of muscle or lose 5 more
pounds of weight." That's not reactive
search. That's predictive discovery. And
it's similar to what Perplexity is doing
with its discover tab, but more
personalized and automated. And here's
what this means for your brand. Topical
consistency match. The more you publish
a specific topic, the more Chad GBT
associates your brand with that
category. First party data becomes
critical. If you're running ads inside
Chad GBT, your customer data trains
algorithms to understand who your best
customers are. You're not just competing
for keywords anymore. You're competing
for associations. The brands that define
their category early will become the
default recommendation. Update five,
freshness and citation velocity are the
new ranking signals. Right now, Chad GBD
tends to site older legacy brands,
companies that have been around for
decades and have massive citation
volume. But that's changing. In 2026,
the algorithm will start weighing
freshness and citation velocity, not
just total citations. Here's what that
means. If a new brand gets mentioned
constantly in the last 30 days, Chad GBT
will start citing them over older brands
that haven't been discussed recently.
It's not about who has the most mentions
ever. It's about who has the most
momentum right now. Here's a strategy.
Publish consistently. Fresh, updated
content signals to Chat GBT that your
brand is active and relevant. You also
want to get mentioned frequently. Press
coverage, podcast appearances, guest
posts. These create citation velocity.
You also want to do digital PR. And if
you're struggling with digital PR and
you just want someone to do it for you,
check out our ad agency, NP Digital,
where we have over a hundred people
globally that specialize in digital PR,
this get your brand mentioned out there,
especially on industry relevant
websites. So that way, LLMs like Chad
GBT and Gemini and Perplexi mention you
more often than the competition. Now,
you also want to update your existing
content. Add less updated dates to your
pages. Chad GBT favors current
information versus old, outdated
information. The algorithm is moving
away from legacy bias and towards
real-time relevance. Update six,
sentimentbased ranking is coming. Right
now, Chad GT will mention brands both in
positive and negative context. But in
2026, the algorithm is going to start
filtering based on sentiment. Here's
what's happening. Chad GPT analyzes
brand sentiment across web reviews,
social mentions, form discussions, and
over time it's going to prioritize
brands with positive sentiment and
filter out brands with negative
reputations just like you see in the
Apple App Store or Google Play Store.
This means platforms like G2, Trust
Pilot, Amazon Reviews, and Yelp are
going to become ranking signals inside
Chat GBT. And here's what you need to
do. Manage your reputation aggressively.
If you have negative reviews, respond to
them. Fix issues. Build positive
sentiment. You want to encourage happy
customers to leave reviews. The more
positive mentions you have across
credible platforms, the better you'll
rank in site chat GBT. Monitor your
brand sentiment. Use tools like Uberess
to track your brand and how it's doing
across the web and what people are
saying versus how your competition is
getting mentioned across the web. Is
your brand more positive than theirs or
negative? Uber suggest will show you.
And reputation management isn't optional
anymore. It's a core part of AI
visibility. Update seven. Blogging still
matters, just not the way you think. A
lot of companies are stopping their
blogs because traffic is declining. But
here's the thing, Chad GBT needs content
to learn from. The more you blog, the
more likely you are to get cited, even
if you don't get the traffic you once
did. Brands that blog regularly see
better traffic retention, more
conversions, higher authority
recognition within AI platforms. Here's
the approach. Keep publishing fresh new
information that isn't just regurgitated
that everyone else is talking about. And
when you publish content, make sure it's
structured. You use schema markup. And
even if you have a lot of content that
already exists on the web with your
blog, update it. Keep it up to date
because these LLMs like Chad GPT prefer
citing new fresh information versus old
outdated information. So there's nothing
wrong with updating your old content and
then having that last updated day
refresh on that blog post. You also want
to optimize for AI readability. Use
clear headers, bullet points, and schema
markup so Chad GBT can easily extract
and summarize your content. Think of
your blog as a data source, not just a
traffic driver. Update eight. Create for
humans package for AI. Here's a new
rule. Your content needs to serve two
audiences, humans and algorithms. Humans
want quick answers, engaging
storytelling, and depth when they want
it. Chad GPT wants structured data. It
can scrape, parse, and summarize
instantly. Here's how to do both. Use
clear headings and subheadings. This
makes it easy for AI to understand your
content structure and for people to skim
if they want. Add structured schema
markup. This tells AI engines exactly
what your content is about. Write
concise summaries. A pulls from sections
that are easy to extract and site. You
also want to site the main key points at
the top of your articles, similar to
what CNBC does, because this allows both
the user and AI to know what the main
points of the article is about. If a
user wants more, they can keep reading.
But this also makes it easy for AI to
summarize the main points and show it to
humans when they're using chat GBT or
any other LLM. You also want to balance
depth with scannability. Give humans the
details they want, but package it in a
way AI can process. Similar to using
tables of you versus your competition
and outlining the differences between
your products and their products or your
services and their services. Here's the
biggest thing that you need to take away
from all of this. Chat GBT's algorithm
isn't static. It's evolving fast, and
the brands that understand how to adapt
quickly will dominate visibility,
citations, and trust inside the world's
fastest growing discovery engine.
Authority matters more than volume.
Freshness beats legacy. Sentiment drives
recommendations. And if you're not
packaging your content for AI, you're
behind. The question isn't whether Chad
GPT will change how people discover
brands. It's whether your brand will be
the one they discover. If you want to go
deeper into how AI search really works
and how to dominate every major
platform, watch my next video. This will
show you exactly how to position a brand
for maximum visibility in 2026 and
beyond.